Title: Forum Acusticum 2014, Krakow
Date: 2014-09-14
Category: Blog
Tags: acoustics, work, sonorus

Last week the conference [Forum Acusticum 2014](http://fa2014.pl) took
place in the city of Krakow, Poland. From Monday till Friday there were
presentations as well as meetings of technical committees. The
presentations covered a wide range of topics like structural acoustics,
human response and auralisation.

A special session was organised on Urban Sound Planning as well, in
which many of my [project members](http://www.fp7sonorus.eu/) presented
their current work. I'm glad a lot of people attended the session.

I gave a presentation with the title *Modelling sound propagation in the
presence of turbulence for the auralisation of aircraft noise* in a
session on Environmental Acoustics. This session was Friday morning
early, which was a bit unfortunate, considering there was a nice party
with the [Young Acousticians Network](https://www.euracoustics.org/activities/yan) the evening
before. I was surprised there were still so many people that morning!

On Thursday I joined a discussion on benchmarking for computational
acoustics. When implementing a model you would like to be able to
validate this. This can sometimes be difficult due to lack of available
information or benchmarks. Therefore, the idea is now to put online some
kind of repository where people can put their benchmarks. Considering
this is a topic of interest in other fields of science I am really
curious how they deal with this.

The city of Krakow surprised me a lot. It's quite a green city and there
seems to be a good and relaxed mood. There's plenty of pubs and
restaurants, especially around the main square which is huge.

Anyway, that's my summary on FA2014!
