Title: Agra, Jaipur and now Jodhpur
Date: 2013-02-02 08:09
Category: Blog
Tags: india
Slug: agra-jaipur-and-now-jodhpur

Two and a half weeks ago I arrived in Delhi. Since then I went to Agra,
Jaipur, and Jodhpur, where I decided to stay some longer. Let's try and
keep it chronological, and start with Agra.

![Taj Mahal]({filename}/images/2013/02/IMG_0128-300x225.jpg)

I was in Agra for I think 5 nights, and the location I was staying, Saj
Palace, was quite nice. There were plenty small restaurants and shops
around, and the hotel had a nice view on the Taj. People came and went,
but like me, there was a Canadian family staying a bit longer. They were
actually on a world trip of a whopping 14 months! Anyhow, in Agra I
finally was able to do some work on my thesis as well.

![Agra Fort]({filename}/images/2013/02/IMG_0130-300x225.jpg)

After Agra I went by train to Jaipur during which I had a nice
conversation with a local. She was having a puppy along, and, as long as
the other people in the coach wouldn't mind, according to the rules the
dog should be allowed to stay. Well, I was the only other one, and I
didn't mind at all, but somehow the conductor didn't agree and sent the
dog to a special coach. So stupid...

Anyhow, Jaipur. I don't have much positive to say about my stay there.
While the hotel had friendly personnel and the rooms were quite good, it
was so damn noisy I couldn't get any sleep at all. And when you then get
diarrhea as well...pfff. But before I got that I did get to see some of
the town, but there wasn't anything special in my opinion, and therefore
I wouldn't recommend anyone to go there.

![Old city of Jaipur]({filename}/images/2013/02/IMG_0156-300x225.jpg)

Because of the diarrhea and fever I stayed a bit longer in Jaipur.
Eventually I decided to go to Jodhpur even though I was still sick. The
train ride from Jaipur to Jodhpur was I think the best moment I've had
during my stay here. I booked a ticket for an AC3 coach, but wasn't able
to find it as all the numbers were messed up when it arrived. I went
instead in a normal sleeper class. The smell at first was horrible, but
after a few minutes you're used to it. I put my stuff away,  lay down on
a berth, in the sun shine, with the windows open the wind going through
the coach. It was great! In the meanwhile, cracking some nuts and
talking to some locals. Best moment so far :)

In Jodhpor I am now staying at a great hotel. The people that are
working here are very friendly, the food is the best I had thus far, and
it's quiet! Like me there are quite some others here who are traveling
for more than four months through India. Some are going from north to
south, while others went south first. It's interesting to hear where
they've been, and what they thought of the places, as I also haven't
decided where I will be going.

Two days ago I went to see a doctor and got some medication for the
diarrhea and fever. I think I got it because I drank half a glass of tap
water. Stupid. Things seem to be improving now, though the antibiotics
are making me so tired, that I haven't been able to explore Jodhpur yet.
As I will be staying for a least another 5 days in Jodhpur, that
shouldn't be a problem though. After those five days I will take the
train to Jaisalmer where I would like to go on a 2 or 3 day camel
safari.
