Holi and McLeod Ganj
####################
:date: 2013-04-25 12:46

:status: published
:category: Blog
:tags: india
:slug: holi-and-mcleod-ganj

In my previous post I wrote how few foreign tourists could be found in
Shimla. Well, I've spend some weeks now here in McLeod Ganj, and I  can
tell you it's quite the opposite. You really have to look hard to find
Indian people around here! Okay, they're still here, but seem to be a
minority compared to the huge amounts of Tibetan people and foreign
tourists.

Anyhow, let's continue where I finished last time. I spend quite some
time in Shimla, and during my stay I met again some travelers I met
before in Udaipur and Jodhpur, which was quite nice. Unlike me they have
been to many more places since we split ways so it was very nice to
catch up and hear their stories of their travels. It was actually the
last day for me in Shimla when I met two Canadians I had met before in
Jodhpur. While they decided to spend Holi in Shimla I went back to
Delhi.

So....Delhi and Holi. Quite some people are afraid of this combination,
but I must say there is no reason at all. While it can get chaotic
(drunk rickshaw drivers doing tricks on their rickshaws, waterballoons
coming at you from all directions), it is a VERY nice and colourful day!
I had a great day and stay there and look forward to a next Holi :-)

Some days after Holi I took the bus again, and this time to Dharamsala
or more precise, McLeod Ganj. McLeod Ganj is the area where the Tibetan
government in exile can be found and as such many Tibetan refugees live
here. Many foreigners could also be found due to popularity of the Dalai
Lama and Tibetan Buddhism. While I am one of the foreigners here I must
say I am definitely not here for this reason. Most foreigners that I met
here in McLeod Ganj come to learn about that culture, for meditation or
to smoke.

Again I met some travelers from before here, which was nice to spend
some time with again. By now though they've all left, and so I feel it's
time to move on again as well. As I've been working real hard on my
thesis again for a while (except last week due to a stupid injury) I
feel like having a short break again. Therefore my plan is to go to
Dalhousie for a dat or two, departing at the end of the weekend. After
that I continue my plans by heading to Srinagar. I haven't figured out
yet whether I go there via Udhampur or Jammu. While I don't want to go
via the latter I am told it is easiest to go from there. Hmmm, I'll have
to think about it. Maybe when I go up Triund again and spend the night
at the Snowline Cafe?

